# hrtz.io

Story:

As a person in need who is actively begging, I am approached by an hrtz.io advocate and told that there is a donation waiting for me if I become an hrtz.io member. I am skeptical but it is all explained to me in a pamphlet that I can read on my own time, and I can ask questions while the advocate is there. The advocate can sign me up, or I can go to an hrtz.io kiosk nearby (it is shown on the map included in the pamphlet) and sign up. I can provide as little or as much information about myself as I am comfortable with using the touch screen or by speaking with the advocate. Optional information I can provide includes my name or nickname, age, my picture, disabilities I might have, my story, my religious, cultural, social or other associations, and my needs. It is explained to me that the more information I provide, the more likely I will be to get donations. I provide my fingerprint, which will not be shared with anyone. I am told this is to ensure that the system is not abused by people obtaining multiple tokens and setting up fake profiles to try to get lots of donations.

I receive a "token" - a one inch square with two buttons on one side and the hrtz.io branding logo, and on the other side might be the branding for a partner organization - for example I might prefer a rainbow flag or a jewish star or an american flag. The token requires no batteries and its charge lasts for about a year. It gives off a weak bluetooth signal.

When I am looking to receive donations, I press the "donation mode" button on. I may also choose to wear my token in a visible place in order to attract donors. hrtz.io donors in a very close range (100ft) of me would be able to see me on their "radar" of people in need in their daily commutes. If I'd like, they can see me in real-time; but I can also prefer to only be seen an hour after I am no longer in their range, or a day. I can set that myself. Donors donate to me either in real time or at a later time.

I can check what has been donated to me at any time by visiting an hrtz.io kiosk. It will sense that I am near and I can just put my finger onto the fingerprint detector to authenticate. There, it lists all who donated to me and the amounts. Some donors may have shared their picture and I recognize them from the morning commute by the bart station. Sometimes what is donated is a USD amount; other times what is donated is a service, such as showering, an occasional nice meal in a sit down restaurant,  a clothing rental / exchange service where I can wear a basic outfit for 3-4 days and then exchange it for a similar one that has been washed after previous use, transportation services, etc. I can see where the providers of these services are on a map. I can also see how much longer my token is expected to last and even get a new token if it is going to expire within the next 60 days, right from the kiosk (this will disable my old token). The kiosks can also show advertising for the vendors that partner with hrtz.io

When I go to a vendor, I switch my "customer" button on. I might choose to wear my in-need token in a visible place to help cue the cashier without bringing a lot of attention to myself. The vendor has partnered with hrtz.io because they care about people like me and want to help me. They have multiple ways of knowing I am a program participant - their hrtz.io app on their in-store tablet may be active and showing them who is nearby. When I want to pay for my items / services, I have two options, depending on the type of vendor.

In one scenario, I approach the cash register just like anybody else, I am rung up, and then I present my hrtz.io visa. Because they are well trained, they know to recognize this particular visa, as well as my token (if I am wearing it), or my picture / profile which is up on their tablet screen as a participant. They can therefore subtly tap my profile on the tablet screen (it has the last 4 of my visa) and then ask me to authenticate. I touch my fingerprint on the sensor, get approved, and then the clerk runs the Visa like normal, gives my recipient, and I am on the way. Since hrtz.io only partners with companies that agree not to sell cigarettes, alcohol, and other items that donors would not want to pay for, I will be buying only relatively healthy items. 

In other scenarios, there is no Visa involved. In these, the vendor still needs to identify me as an hrtz.io program participant, enter the sale amount into the hrtz.io app running on their tablet, and get my fingerprint for authorization. They then can either print a check from hrtz.io from the app and enter "check" as the method of payment in their existing payment system, put the check through the register, and optionally run it through their check-clearing system; or they can have the amount electronically deposited into their bank account by hrtz.io and indicate "other" method of payment to their sales program. hrtz.io's app also integrates with some popular tablet payment systems, making it easy for vendors to track all of their payments in one system while still being an hrtz.io vendor.

Donors can also donate specific services, instead of amounts. When they do this, they agree to make a payment to the vendor for an agreed upon amount if and when the service is actually used. So for example, a donor donates 10 showers to me. I find this out and visit one of the vendors that provides these showers. The vendor finds the specific shower donation and clicks it. The vendor receives the agreed upon amount for the service from hrtz.io. Donors might be more comfortable with this because they can control what service is provided and who is getting the service; whereas with dollar amounts, they can be used by the participant to buy healthy items, but then those healthy items can be sold for cash and the cash used for unhealthy things.

This helps move money from people who encounter homeless / people in need on a daily basis, and wish they could help; but who at the same time often do not carry money and even if they did, they are reluctant to pull out their wallet and give. It enables giving to the poor in a nearly direct way but in a debit card world. And it encourages giving because one knows better how the gifts are being spent - because they can be earmarked for specific items / services and because the organization is completely open source and transparent.

As a donor, I can do any number of things:

"I would like to donate a budget of $20 per week, automatically, to the 5 people I see the most on my morning commute. I would also like to donate one shower per week to whomever needs it"

"I check my phone at the end of the week and see the faces / bios of the people I encountered this week, ordered by who I saw the most; but I can also order by who received the least donations, their ages, military background, organizations, etc. I can choose to donate items right then and there"

"Every morning, I get out my donor token and pin it to the inside of my jacket pocket. Or my apple watch. And when I see someone I would like to donate to, I push the "donation marker" button. The person might or might not be an hrtz.io member; and even if they are, they may not have real-time sharing on for safety or privacy reasons. However, that evening, or later that week, I can review "who was near when I pushed my donation marker button", and by then I may be able to see what hrtz.io members were near me at the time I created the "donation marker". I then see the person from earlier in the day / week, and I can donate to them or set a recurring donation"
